But it just made me feel smug, which is how I mostly feel.
I'm chas fisher on. Welcome to draft zero, a podcast where emerging filmmakers try to work out what makes great screenplays work.
And I'm stu willis.
And previously Jon draft zero. We have done two episodes on exposition called Something About Expedition.
I can't exactly remember X Elling, and we also did a favourite episode of ours called Game of Choices, which looked at the presentation off choices and game of thrones.
Egg selling at exposition.
And on the eve off the final three episodes of game of thrones.
Well, that's what we're recording. By the time this comes out, it's probably gonna be either. The last episode we returned once again to discuss game of thrones, but this time, Season seven on a little bit of Season eight, so spoilers.
But to do so in the context Off exposition.
I was born to rule the Seven Kingdoms,
and I will.
And why Stew, given this was your idea, have you chosen to return to this particular topic in the context of this particular show?
There was an observation made by Miles McNutt and I really like his his articles.
A knob solution Meeting His review off game of thrones Season seven Episode two Way Back in Like early two thousand seventeen.
It's kind of struck me then, and I've been thinking about ever since. We're probably gonna show notes, but I'll just kind of read the essential part, which is this is me being Miles back in Season one, I wrote howthe show use sex as a way to make historical info dumps more exciting.
Became whole thing back to studio.
We call it's exposition, Back to Mask, but we in Howard a point where exposition can also be deeply meaningful for these characters.
Miles then gives a few examples between Danny and Virus Littlefinger, reminding Jon about his relationship with Caitlin.
He wasn't fund of you or she,
but it appears she vastly underestimated you.
And then he kind of leads it up to this is Miles observation.
For the most part, this episode fits into this pattern of reflective moments designed to allow characters to make crucial decisions.
And that got me thinking and talking with you about exposition, because in game of thrones,
especially in season seven eight, you have a lot of reunions between characters and they all have different bits of information, whereas we, as the audience, think we see the whole picture.
And in the meeting and the revealing of information.
There is a power exchange that the exposition shifts.
Power information is parent A ll the seasons of game of thrones. It's a show that is principally concerned about power.
It's pre existing fax that in general the character's aware off.
But the audience aren't. That is. The traditional clunky exposition scene is where the characters have to explain something for the sake of the audience, but not for the sake of the characters.
I don't think that's true of all exposition, and game of thrones has it because there is a lot of pre existing fax and early seasons had to get through those pre existing facts.
But in general, what game of thrones has to do in Season seven and Season eight and even earlier seasons is remind the audience off pre existing facts.
Because the show is so long running, the writers cannot guarantee that the audience is going to remember this one particular line to use an example.
And spoilers for Season eight.
Yes, well, I'm about Teo spoil. Season eight Episode three They had tohave thie Red Woman quote her prophecy that she gave Ira.
I see a darkness in you,
And in that darkness eyes staring back at me Brown eyes, blue eyes, green eyes,
eyes you'LL shut forever.
Before then, explaining that it also includes blue eyes.
I know you.
No, no, You.
He's had with me again And here we are at the end of the world,
Set up shop money, eyes forever You're right about that Brown eyes, green eyes,
and blue eyes.
Yes. One of the main reasons why I am excited to dive into this particular episode is that I'm hoping we'LL get some craft tools on a different kind of exposition problem.
So, yes, as you say, it's a great opportunity to watch power dynamics happen where you have already set up different characters having different,
information and how they choose to exchange that information or to withhold it.
So that's, Ah, fascinating thing that will see play out in these scenes.
But to me there's a different problem that these scenes have to address.
What we were talking about in our previous two exposition episodes is like you said, is information often that the audience is unaware ofthe, whereas,
the problem that we've got here is the audience, although in some cases, as you say, need to be reminded of certain facts, they're often aware of Muchmore,
in any given scene than either of the two or multiple characters interacting therein.
And so then the writers are faced with a choice.
Essentially, the challenge is how do we have this scene play out in a credible and compelling way, while also revealing or not revealing?
Huge swathes of storey that has gone on before on this, I think, is a problem that could even happen in game of thrones.
We've got now eight seasons of famously with over forty odd principal characters, but I think it can even happen in feature films where you've got two plots happening side by side that converge near the end.
And then you're faced with this choice of how does that scene work where the audience knows more than both characters?
How does that seem? Play out to the satisfaction of the audience and move the plot along.
So that's kind of what I'm hoping to draw some lessons from here.
What I think you're tapping into is that we no, the pre existing facts, even if we need to be reminded of them.
What we don't know is what these facts mean for each of these characters individually and what they're goingto do about them.
What is dinner is going to do when she finds out Jon,
is the rightful heir to the Iron throne, and this kind of leads me to the kind of something a thesis that I'm Bill going to be building through this episode, I reckon just what I call character exposition,
which is there a kind of facts to do with the world world building the State of affairs,
plot, fax for lack of a better word.
But there's another type of exposition, which is how characters feel a kind of exposition about the exposition.
That's about the inner monologue with character. And I think, if you were these scenes about that, that they give opportunities for characters to talk about how they feel about their journey and how they feel about other characters.
And perhaps most useful for Arrieta is how the characters feel about themselves.
And I think that kind of character exposition is different from what we discussed in that earlier episode of.
Can I briefly summarise our previous episodes on exposition?
I would recommend going back and re listening to them or listening to them for the first time.
I went back and re listen to them and actually really enjoyed them. But, you know, we started with the idea that any Storey is exposition. It is information doled out over time in any narrative storey anyway.
And so all of cinema's exposition, the issue we tackled in those episodes of scenes that feel like exposition because,
there's this feeling like the writer is communicating directly to the audience at the expense off what the characters would do in that situation.
And we looked at scenes where that had actually been pulled off really well and the I'm going to summarise the tools that we got, which is from Shane Black.
Make sure that these scenes have reversals and payoffs rather than just set up. Rather than just providing information that's going to pay off in the future, have within the scene a reversal or a payoff, and you can't have a reversal or a payoff unless you have an expectation.
And Terry Rossio, in a really great podcast with Pilar Alessandra said.
It will never feel like exposition if it answers an audience question.
So again, if you've got a scene that's feeling like exposition, if you've set up a question previously that gets resolved by that scene, it may not feel like exposition.
And the key ones that we got two and these air two or three sort of related craft tools is one.
Make the exposition motivated by character, that it's something that character wants to do. Not that the character has to do for the sake of the writer communicating to the audience on DH. Two ways of making it motivated by character is one.
Make the exposition action, where the characters only revealing the information in order to make another character in the scene, do something they would not otherwise do,
on the final thing, and all these things are subtly connected, but it's give the characters agency within the scene.
If you've got an exposition scene, give them a choice to make within that seen and it won't feel like exposition on. Finally, Terry Rossio did conclude with Fuck exposition.
Just don't do it because it will create mystery and make the audience lean forward.
Now the fuck exposition is a little harder to do in these scenes were going to be talking about because there's little mystery involved. Now all the cards are kind of on the table, and now it's more about who's playing what card.
So I'm going to say off those examples, the one that I think is most pony into a ll. The roughly five scenes were discussing from Gamma Foreign Season seven, though obviously we're making already making references to what's past in season eight.
The woman is the most relevant to me. And how I think about all these scenes and why they're effective examples of exposition,
is that it's about the characters of revealing information in order to compel they're seen partner, the other character in the scene to act and without exception, the five scenes that were going to be talking about our two handers.
There may be a two hander that becomes a three hand up, but in the coordination of the three hander, two characters go into the same wanting something.
So I think the map scene in king's landing. I'm not quite sure of Jamey's motivation in that scene that I haven't re watch the episodes. We re watch the scenes where you re watch the episodes, but let's assume at least one if not both characters and these scenes want something out of the scene.
The point of the information is to compel the other characters act and very fittingly for game of thrones.
There were winners and losers in the scenes, and I think there are three outcomes with slight variation of every scene, and exposition is a part of achieving that outcome.
This is kind of related to tactics. I guess using information as a tactic that one character wins thie other one loses.
They both win or they both lose. And I think there is a variation of that which adds more complexity, which is They think they win or they think they've lost Ryan, which is very game of thrones. They think they've won that scene.
So we've got three rough groups of scenes, mostly in season seven, but one from season eight.
I mean, these are all kind of reunion scenes. That was sort of the remit going in, but Group one of the ones where it feels like there is a lot of information to just be provided to the audience in some way.
Yeah, so how the writers have made those scenes work.
Group two of scenes is a couple that happened on Dragonstone between Jon Snow and the first one's Vegetarian, and the second one is with me Sunday on DH.
There also scenes where I don't know how to describe those two. Hopefully, they've got some kind of grouping, but it was is very much going to the thing that you're talking about. Stuart.
What action is trying to be compelled out of the characters on the final group is the different Stark reunion scenes that happen over Season seven and the beginning of Season eight between the Stark siblings.
Welcome TTO Wester Ross, where the fight for the kingdom is on.
Okay, so the first scene that we're talking about is jamie and Sassy in king's landing.
From Episode one from Memory. It's actually the first time we see jamie Answer C in episode one off Season seven on the scene takes place in an open courtyard where a map of westeros is being drawn on the floor,
and this clearly caught my attention.
Not so much the map, but the nature off the scene, which starts out essentially with a summary off their position for people who may have not re watched season one through to six but for diving in.
What is this? That's what we've been waiting for Our whole lives. Father trained us for whether he knew it or not.
Maybe memorise every damn city, town, lake, forest and mountain was Now we just have to.
You've been quiet since you came home. You're angry with me.
Dinner is tar Gary in this chosen Terrian to be higher right now they're sailing across the narrow sea, hoping to take back her father's throne.
Our little brother, but one you love so much the one you set free.
The one who murdered our father and our first born son. Now he stands beside our enemies and gives them counsel.
Is out there somewhere. The head of an armada. Where will they land?
Dragonstone Deep. More supports for this ship's stannis. Left the castle unoccupied. And that's where she was born.
Enemies to the east, Enemies to the south and Arya Sand and her brood of bitches. Mr the West.
Only your cunt. Another traitor.
Enemies to the north. Ned Stark bastard has been named king in the North, and that murdering whore Sansa stands beside enemies everywhere. We're surrounded by traitors.
You're in command of the Lannister army now. how don't proceed Winters here We can't win a war if we can't feed our men and our horses.
The Tyrell's have green Tyrell's of the Life Stark Will the Tyrell Bannerman's stand alongside a dothraki horde and unsullied slave soldiers?
If they think the narrows for women, No one wants to fight on the losing in sight right now.
He looked like the losing side.
I'm the queen of the Seven Kingdoms. Three kingdoms at best.
Not sure you understand how much danger and I understand we're in a war for survival. I understand whoever loses dies, I understand Whoever wins could launch a dynasty that lasts a thousand years. Dennis Tea for whom?
On children are dead with the last of us. A dynasty for us then.
We never talked about.
There's nothing to say. Baby boy killed himself. He betrayed me.
E trade us both. Should we spend our days mourning the dead mother, Father and all our children?
I love them. I did now west flesh and blood within last. Lannisters.
Even Lannisters can't survive without allies. Where are our allies now?
You saw what happens to all the friends family I heard. How could we ever trust a man like that could.
It was a useless old coward. But the phrase supported us.
Now they're all dead. Whoever killed them is no friend of ours. We need allies stronger, better allies. We can't win this war alone.
Think I listened to Father for forty years and learned nothing?
And the scene feels exposition here because they're kind of telling each other things that they really know. They know what their military position is, what their political position is.
Sir, see acts, perhaps not without reason.
Jamie is kind of mansplaining to her a little bit about the military position. Which is why she says, I learned something from a following my father for forty years. Don't underestimate.
She does invite the mansplaining. She's like you're now the commander of the Lannister Army. Tell us how we should win this war. It's like, Please, brother, can you please expose it?
And really the only plan is we need allies. But they lay deceit about the needing food and,
the phrase being wiped out that they need food from Tully's and also the queen of thorns on associate is like I mean, the laying part of their strategy that will see executed in Season seven.
So my take on this scene is from memory.
Jamie has come back. Just come back at the end of season secrets as any to find the destruction of the yet and the suicide of Toman, their last son, because their daughter was killed, poisoned and his sons died.
So I think at this point the position is really soc is trying to make sure he recruit him to the cause.
And he even questions the cause like toe. What end are we fighting? And it's actually to me. The scene actually only stops being exposition ing and becomes interesting when he poses this question.
They're all talking about tactics and plans, and at some point he asked Toe what end?
Tennessee for whom on children are dead.
And it's clear what the scene then becomes interesting because there is conflict.
Her answer is very telling. That's a tack, right? It's giving the audience exposition. But the play is this is for us. She is trying to win him on side.
Didn't see for us there.
Yeah.
Yeah, and it's only in this little interaction that jamie has the line.
We never talked about.
Which is a reminder for the audience.
And because this is a TV show and we don't see every little interaction, it's telling us that this is the first time he's raised the death of their last child,
and him having just come back from a ship where his other child died in his arms,
and the scene becomes interesting as soon as there is a conflict between the two of them.
Were there just talking about how to take over Western us, it feels exposition in it feels boring, but as soon as he has a desire from her, which is, I guess, to connect emotionally,
and to talk is lovers rather than as conquerors.
And I agree with you earlier observation that her response to that line that Tom and betrayed them.
He betrayed me. He betrayed us both.
Is definitely sowing the seeds of jamie being able to walk away from that relationship.
I mean, she she outlines their plan. It's ours now. We just need to take it like that's the plan. It's exposition. It's giving us a clear character motivation.
But it's not what makes it a great scene. And what's very clever about game of thrones and I think this is true in all of them is that there is, like twenty or thirty percent off what they do.
Is that kind of clear laying out the motivation, clearly laying the plan.
But then they infuse it with this understanding of character, the game of thrones in every scene that's very telling.
Actually, her next thing we could always do in line by line analysis. But it's like Are you afraid of me?
She's sounding him out. He says, Should I be? It's a very deflected questions.
It's telling because he's asking her on face value, his tones under plan, which is like.
Do you consider me an enemy? She's trying to work out whether she can trust him, and he's trying to work out whether he could trust her.
Well, he's trying to work out whether he wants to be there, I think whether it can.
You know, I agree that I don't think it's talking as lovers. I think that Tom in question is like, this is the woman that blew up the set.
Is she the person I fell in love with? A sir C. Gone too far.
Unlike the accusation about you loving Terrian that's designed to provoke.
The one you love so much The one you set free. The one who murdered our father and our first born son. Now he stands beside our enemies and gives them counsel.
Menaces, that's all. And they weave it together. It's not like he's the plot, and he is the character stuff they weave in betweens. There's moments off, you know, barbed insults.
Yeah, but I would say that it feels like the first, third or half of that scene feels like exposition without that kind of back and forth until she senses wavering in his loyalty.
You know, he's questioned. Who wants to fight on the losing side?
No one wants to fight on the losing sight right now. He looked like a losing side.
Yeah.
He's basically saying, I think we might be the losing side.
What is fascinating about this scene is it becomes interesting and it becomes less about exposition as soon as there's conflict on DH. As soon as there's tactics and, as you say, says he is changing her tactics all the time.
There is a version of this scene where she is lying to herself, that she actually feels deeply hurt, but she feels betrayed.
That's character exposition, right? And that's kind of why I wanted to this episode because it expands the definition off exposition, which is really useful because there's obviously plea existing facts to do with plot.
But I think thie other thing that right has really struggled with, but we don't talk about enough is exposition to do with character how characters feel what motivates them.
How do they reveal that an vertically how they've changed? She is trying to convince jamie that not to talk to you thing. Don't talk to me At that time one, he betrayed us.
We've got to think about assets us in there.
I mean, she's essentially and sorry to pull in Australian political reference here, but she's pulling a Jon Howard.
She's creating an assassin of them, and she's pulling jamie into the US as against all the others.
She's playing up everyone else in the world other than the two of them to be in other.
Within last lannisters.
Pulling him in with that. And it's fascinating because not only is he resisting that, but then the conversation is textually as opposed to subtextual e about allies and him saying it can't just be the two of us.
We need people outside of the two of us.
And that's the question ends on. So this scene ends on a question. But do you think there is a victor in this scene coming back to my idea that each of these scenes there is a potentially a winner?
Yes, I think coming into the scene like G has got two very conscious objectives. One is toe. Lay out the plan, too conquer westeros and cement her powers queen on DH.
I think she has a concrete plan.
And the subset of that is to make sure that jamie is on board and I think teo her satisfaction within the scene.
She wins both of those things because he ends up essentially giving in and asking her about her plan, and then it cuts away before it tells us that's what the plan actually is.
Yeah, and he needs allies. He's her ally, but this is what makes I guess.
He also finds out the answering. I guess he's not, We know, but for me, if the answer is about never talked about Tommen, they did, and he found out what she thought, which is that he's. She believes he betrayed them.
So I think it's, as you say, subconscious.
But I think from a riding point of view that that was a very important question. They needed to do that because that is what begins to drive the wedge between.
Are absolutely so in a way, you're right. It sze character exposition and we only know of it as character exposition because we've seen what happens after this scene.
So we see what the writers are doing in this episode that will play out by the end of the season.
But here's why. I'd say as much as it's revealing character. It's not character exposition. It's not him saying You know what?
I feel that you are not grieving over our children, and I'm questioning.
I'm talking specifically about her line about the EPA traitors that's revealing a preexisting fact about how she feels.
Yeah, absolutely. I guess what I'm getting to here is, so my objective, broadly, is how to take these scenes, that having to do heavy lifting exposition Lee and make them fascinating.
And one of the things we're going to keep coming back to is, it's about character.
That's one of the key ways that they get to keep the audience interested in it now.
And compelling the action, even when it's just mainly plop, plop, plop plot. She still wants to compel him to act. The compulsion is not as strong as the conflict she wants to compel him to tell her her win the war.
Yeah, and I think we're going to come back to this a lot.
We're talking about these scenes with these characters, and as much as I want to pull out examples that apply to all other writers and all your projects, they've got an immense advantage here.
You know, I was I was rewatching Season seven, and I remember texting rooms and saying, I'm not sure if we Khun do this episode because I'm re watching Season seven and there's all these reunions and they're doing all this exposition.
But we have Bean with these characters for so long, and we love these characters so much, and we can't wait for these characters to get together, particularly like Danny and Jon.
Throughout Season seven, we've been like we're so excited. There's so much set up that almost every scene feels like payoff, even if they talk about anything,
but we've picked particular.
It seems for a reason, right? And this was a great one because it is right down to the map.
It feels like a classic old guard. He comes Thie exposition scene.
In a way, it is. It serves as an outline of their plan, but they introduced personal conflict, and from the beginning, I think not like the very opening salvo of the same.
But we think the three acts of the scene, the first twenty point in that scene, is the declaration of intent.
Right? That's the inciting incident.
That I was. Now we just have to.
And for me, the midpoint is him questioning toe. What end? One of the things we're goingto find throughout all of this is a lot of these exposition seen stop feeling like exposition scenes because they change the objective.
Once the exposition has been done in a lot of these things, then they say, Well, we've done that bit, yes.
Yeah, they don't end on the eggs.
They end on an emotional moment like Cliffhanger, just like we're going to need allies and how they're going to find allies. But it's also, we feel, the power shift.
He has gone in slightly hesitant, and he's basically agreeing to be her ally, which is different from being her lover.
But she's won him over because in the end, I think, I think, on some level search, he realises she's lost jamie, but she needs him to be an ally.
All her talk about legacy and that is in retrospect because we've seen how she continues to act.
But I think in retrospect we realise that she is just playing him.
Dragons are bigger than egg. Oh, shoot. Just trying to frighten us.
It's true, she Lacey's king's landing triple long as we get back there before their Stark one more out. It's a long ride.
So the next thing that we've chosen is another one that felt a lot like exposition right to the end. Which is Arya seemingly bumping into Hot Pie in a pub.
And for those of you don't remember when area was escaping king's landing, she cut her hair, pretended to be a boy and fell in with a whole lot of other sort of boys running away from king's landing, including Hot Pie.
They're trying to remind us of Aria's journey since she left Winterfell because obviously that then plays into Sansa's reactions when she talks about her list in Sansa.
Kind of like laughs about her list of people that are is going to kill like a Ziff and their tension early on run into Season eight.
But she is on her way to king's landing, the riders, the plot problem that they need to solve in this scene or decided to solving the scene.
Let's not say that they have this plot problem to solving this scene. They've created this scene to solve the problem, which is that she's on her way to king's landing.
They need her to make a choice to go toe Winterfell.
What is going to make her go to Winterfell?
I want to put this scene in slight context where there's been a scene in Episode one of Season seven with her,
travelling south and she bumps into a whole lot of Lannister soldiers and she sits and eats with them and tells them that she's going to kill the queen on. They all laugh.
It's just her unheard terminated journey to kill everyone who's on her list. And the one good thing I will say about this scene.
Is that how her character act in the scene with Hot Pie? It's Hot Pie during most of the talking and heard just eating and refuelling.
With the audience in the full knowledge that she wiped out the phrase because they didn't have the opening to Season seven a serving pi.
Yes, at the end of Season six, she killed Walder and then the entire house, Frey in the opening.
When people ask you what happened here. A thousand or from members. Tell them winter came for house Frey.
So when she says she is determined to feel quite to kill the queen where, like she might succeed and we kind of want her to succeed at this point, right?
But what? He's going to turn her toe Winterfell, And the answer is obvious. When it said, Which is she finds out, Jon is king and then off because they obviously had a lot of affection for each other and it was very strong.
Is that for?
I think so. Secret is browning the butter before making the dough. Most people don't do that. It takes up too much time. I didn't do that. You've been making pies.
I believe you're in. Did you meet the big lady Big? Maybe. The Lady Knight. She was a nightshirt arm room. She was looking for your sister. But I told her about you. She ever find you,
family?
What happened to you, Eric?
Where you headed? King's-landing. Why? We know that you blew up the great set. It must have been something to see. Oh, company somewhere do toe. So do that.
I thought you'd be out of the Winterfell. Why would I go out The bones of it? No. The bones of dead.
What? Jon Snow came down from Castle Black The world an army and won the battle of the bastards His killer north. Now,
you're lying. Won't lie about your brother, right?
Friends don't pay. I'm leaving for Europe. Boy, you pray,
Thanks.
Take care of self Hot Pie trouts here killed Won't I'm not. You are a survivor.
The reason why I picked this scene as part of this homework is that it felt aimless like they're both in there.
She's eating, He's sitting, talking. He's driving the scene, which is not all that interesting, because what the hell is he driving it, too? He just wants toe say hello. She doesn't want anything from the scene.
The question of the audiences mind is, what will Arya do if she learns that Jon Snow is king in the North? How important is her list?
Is Shias Stark orgy and nameless man? Isn't that the whole question in season six? And ultimately, I think we felt that she chose to be a Stark like she couldn't become nameless.
Yeah, that was even dramatised by her going back and picking up needle again.
Finally, a girl is no.
And she even says.
A girl is Arya Stark of Winterfell and I'm going home.
You know, that's that questions very firmly, dramatically result.
Right? So the question then ultimately becomes this. When will she learned that he's the king of the North?
And there is a version of this storey where she went in the crossroads two king's landing.
And she tried to kill the King. And there is a tragedy. Jon died.
Okay, spoiler, obviously, if this season is that Winterfell fell in the long night, right?
And Arya, because Arya went to king's landing, right?
She made the wrong choice. And I've got this whole I'm going to say it now might be proven wrong by the time this episode comes out.
I've got a weird kind of ground hog theory about game of thrones that there is going to be some kind of fucked up time thing with Brandon being the Night King does. It is very telling line we're not discussing the scene, but little finger gives the dagger to Bran.
I was like, This is the knife. They tried to kill it and brands like, you know, And he's like.
Do you know who this belonged to?
In a way, that dagger made you what you are today. Forced from your home, driven out to the wilds beyond the war.
I'm thinking this feels like a foreshadowing about this idea that maybe it's kind of like because it's this question of, like, why they stuck in the Middle Ages, that the song of fire and ice is this kind of cycle right of the long night.
And there were versions of this universe where they fail on the Night King wins, and it kind of resets, and it just keeps it. The three Raven is just trying to alter the course of events so humanity lives.
He always constantly loops it and just tries to hope, because he's surprised. He's like I saw you at the Crossroads, sire.
I thought you might go to King's landing. So did I.
And I think he's genuine in that moment, glad that she came to Winterfell, he didn't know what crossroads that she was going to choose.
That's my grand conspiracy theory. We'LL see if it plays out.
The point is, we want to know how she acts. We want to see if she learns that information and how is she going to act and they've had to put in the mouth of a character, right that there was a misdirection with the merchants in the background talking about the queen and the siege, right?
But ultimately, I guess, the killer moment in the scene.
What about your brother, right?
They writers have made a choice to remind I off the familial relation, and maybe she would have made that choice anyway. But in terms of a character motivation question, definitely a preexisting fact for the audience, we know they're related.
We don't need reminding. It exists purely to compel her on the path to Winterfell.
So before we move on to the final scene out of this group one, I guess I want to make the observation that this scene probably isn't that great.
But you can see that the problem that was posed to the writers and you can see the steps that they made Tio fix it or to address it so that it feels is least like exposition as possible.
And as soon as that piece of information is revealed, we cut out of the scene.
I think there's two observations I'm going to make. The first one is that the exposition is compelling, a character to act.
But it's not being used by character to compel the character toe act right?
Yeah. Hot Pie doesn't have any kind of inherent motive in that scene.
No, he doesn't. He doesn't have a finger in the pie, so to speak.
And I think the other opportunity is again reminding the audience of the character.
What makes it nice is we see Ira kind of.
It's a little girl, not a little girl, but she has moments of humanity between her and Hot Pie. So I think we're reminded that she can be that person again, right?
That she isn't Yeah, the cheese in the Terminator that she became in Season six.
Yeah, I think that's important. That is still character exposition. It's not a character monologues not revealing how they feel to the audience, but it's reminding us who she is.
As you said, there could have been many, many ways that could have come across the information and had that beat and turned around and went the other way.
No, and the most obvious one is those emergency. Wherever hearing will like the king in the North, Jon Snow.
And the second that information became action. It's stopped feeling like exposition, and it became a payoff if the whole scene kind of felt justified because of how it ended.
Look into the flames A wall of ice The world,
The only thing standing between us and the army of the dead is the wall And the wall hasn't been properly manned in centuries. Last time we saw the night King was at heart held closest castle to hard home is east. Watch by the sea. That's where I'LL go.
Looks like we're the night's which now.
So the final scene we have, it's a scene at East Watch an Episode five,
Jon on DH, Davos and Jen Drea, who has been picked up somewhat fortuitously by Jon and they've gone.
They've sailed to East Watch because they're going to go beyond the wall to capture an undead and bring it back to Sir C to try and bring all of the seven kingdoms together to fight the Night King when they get Teo East Watch.
There's torment, probably my favourite character in all of game of thrones on DH, he says.
Here's some people in the dungeon, and it turns out that it's the brotherhood.
It's Barrack Jon Darien and Taurus of Murder and the Hound, who are heading north of the wall on a mission on behalf of the Lord of Light.
Come on.
My scouts found them a mile south of the world. Said they were on the way here.
You're the hound.
I saw you once at Winterfell.
They want to go beyond the world too. We don't want to go beyond the war. We have to.
Our Lord told us that the Great War is. Can't trust him. Don't trust any of them.
And the brotherhood. And the last thing their Lord told them to do was sell me to a Red Witch to be murdered. Doors.
I hardly recognised you.
They won't give me anything to drink down. I haven't been feeling like myself. You're a fucking woman.
Like the last Lord commander. He was my father. He hunted us like animals.
You returned the favour. As I recall,
here we all are at the edge of the world.
Att the same moment, heading in the same direction for the same reason.
Our reasons aren't your reasons. It doesn't matter what we think Our reasons are.
There's a greater purpose at work and we serve it together Whether we know it or not.
We may take the steps, but the Lord of Light will you shut your hole Are we coming with you or not?
Then you want to know what we're doing. This is worse than sitting in a freezing cell waiting to die. He's right.
Rule on the same side.
We're all breathing.
So the writers need these characters to come together and go on this mission together.
And there really is on ly one question to the scene, and the hound even gets, you know, they're bouncing off each other.
Every character is having their say and saying Who knows who and what the backstory is, and it's and it's funny and it's aggressive. And Barrick End's kind of trying to give it an inspiring speech, which the hound just interrupt.
Lord of Light. Will you shut your hole? Are we coming with you or not?
Imposes the question. Are you going to let us out or not? The brotherhood they don't get captured on screen. We don't see them get captured.
We don't see torm and putting them in the dungeon.
We've learned that information as we've gotten into this scene, and it's just purely the writers saying all right for this scene to not feel like exposition for these teams to come together, there has to be an action, and the action is. Will you let us out or not?
Does any of the exposition compel them to act? This's the curious thing. What I think is interesting about this scene is I think Jon probably would have let them out anyway.
What makes this scene interesting is actually about them learning pre existing facts about their relationships to each other in order to establish create tension.
Right so we can see them come together in save each other's lives, right?
That's part of it, you know. I mean, it's classic genre stuff. I kind of love it. For that reason, that's the whole thematic thing.
But I'm just saying they could have just met beyond the wall and gone on together. But they've given this scene such kind of possess because you've got one group in power over the other.
The other group, trying to get the first group to do an action on DH gender is the only one who's violently opposed to the Brotherhood, giving out of the cell.
Rule on the same side.
Jurors having a pleasant catch up with Taurus. And I don't think Davos cares. And Jon concludes with, Well, we're all alive and you seem to want what I want, so let's go, you know?
Yeah, we're breathing, I guess. My only other observation, which is a little bit off hand.
Is that the beginning of this episode? I said that all the scenes were walking out with two.
Hand is on DH. Clearly this scene is like a seven hand, but if you look carefully, it's actually structured in many ways, like a two hundred.
I think that's not think that you can kind of take to your own writing, like when you first come in, you get the group Jon's team on the other side of the cell wall and then inside of the cell is the Brotherhood without banners.
But when it gets into the individual conflicts there kind of shot.
I mean, some of them are shot as over the shoulders, but they're definitely confrontational, one on one, so it becomes gender reverses Barrick.
It's Thor, us interacting with Jorah.
It's Jon and Sandal, and then internally, you just get that moment, the kind of over the shoulder and the over shoulder between torment and jorah as they realise that they've got history between them.
And essentially, What's interesting about this thiss seven hander is it's actually a collection off two handers.
That is T build tension, and it's shot and rhythm like that.
But it's got this overarching question off. Well, Jen, will Jon let the Brotherhood without banners out?
It's a kind of a good wayto handle, that kind of big, big, kind of sample scene. Break it down into little two handers.
I just like I don't think I need to talk to Muchmore about this scene.
Other than I think the writers just made such a great decision to put the brotherhood in a cell.
Yeah, they meant that there was a choice at the end of the same. And I think so far the three scenes that we've looked at have all ended with choices, characters making choices.
But not only is there a choice at the end of the scene, what I like about this is that the choices president right from the beginning of the scene, unlike the Hot Pie scene or the map scene.
It's in audience question with fire, which is what will I do if and when she learns that Jon is king in the North off, Will that change her mission? And the answer is yes. It's a question we may feel we know the answer to.
But I didn't I didn't think going into that scene.
And maybe it's because I'm stupid that that was the information that Hot Pie was going to reveal to her in that scene.
I had no idea. I don't know why she was there. I don't know why they were talking to each other.
That Zenit gives you mystery. You're leaning into it.
Why are we every particularly seven seasons in? You're assuming that the scenes existing for a purpose.
Yes, isn't all scenes existing for a purpose?
Yeah, I've read some of your scripts jazz so,
seems they get produced and on the screen.
So the broad learnings from our first ex selling it exposition seem to apply to this new model of scenes where there is still some pre existing facts or even facts of the audience aware of the need to be communicated.
What the next two scenes are there somewhat different because it feels that the writers were trying to solve a different problem.
They both happened on Dragonstone and a lot of Season seven is John and Danny trying to make each other submit to their will.
Jon needs Danny to bring her dragons up north to fight the Night King on DH. She needs him, too.
To Neal.
Yes, to give up being king in the North.
That's all she wants. Probe Danny's talk about breaking the wheel all Danny wants his people to Neil take the knee.
Yeah,
but we're not actually going to talk about any of the scenes between her and John because those kind of play out almost as you expect, given their pre established character loops.
The two scenes that feel like they're there to push these characters in one direction or another.
I mean, they're both pushing on Jon there. They're two scenes, too.
Push Jon towards bending the need to Danny, but are not with Danny. And the first.
With her representatives, which I think is important coming this idea of these scenes being two handers, right?
Like as much as theirs six characters in the previous scene in the dungeon there. Those who represent Jon Sides and the numbers are on the brotherhood there, two groups.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think in this case that's in these two Dragonstone scenes there very much about the representatives of those characters.
So the first scene is as Jon Snow arrives at Dragonstone. He hasn't met Danny. He hasn't even seen the dragons.
He's greeted on the beach bite Erion as the hand of the Queen and they're asked to give up their weapons.
They've given up their weapons feeling that there possibly about to be murdered, and Syrian and Jon a walking up towards the castle together.
Both these scenes that happened on those steps.
Sansa. I hear she's alive and well, she is. She miss me terribly.
A sham marriage. Andan consummate. I didn't ask. Wass wasn't anyway, smarter than she lets on. Stark. Until that on good.
At some point, they want to hear how a night's watch recruit became king in the north. So long as you tell me how a lannister became hand to a narrow target area long and black. Be honest. I was drunk.
My thinking falls. Of course they do. I was your hand. I would have advised against.
General rule of thumb Stark Men don't fare well when they travel south through, But I'm no Stark.
So you get used to them.
You never really do.
Come. The mother is waiting for you.
What is it about the scenes? We got two different observations right, which is suddenly teary in, and it's imbued. I cannot help but say way got bias of the recent episodes, which is Tyrion asking amount. Sansa.
Possibly. This is the first time he's talking about Sansa Reince seasons, right?
So him asking Jon, he doesn't ask her about Sansa. This is what's so interesting about his opening line, which is.
Sansa. I hear she's alive and well.
That's a rhetorical question, right?
It's not like saying Is Sansa alive and well, he's saying, I know that she's alive and well, but he's steering the conversation to Sensor, which is telling the audience that he is concerned, somewhat concerned about how we're welfare and he makes a joke and he's like she is.
And in Jon Snow, typical like I'm not going to give you much.
It's like a tactic johns like, Why are we even talking about Tyrion Sansa? Why did you bring it up? It's a rhetorical question, right? And then he brings up the fact that they were newly married.
And so the question for me in this first part of this scene they were married, but Syrian reminds him, and the audience.
They weren't nearly married, they were married.
A sham marriage andan consummate.
But then it's like she's much more than she lets on. So it's interesting because it's revealing its character exposition. It's about how Terrian feels about Sansa and then how his feelings about Sansa influence Jon.
What is weed about this to me is it feels exposition here, but in a weird way, like they're pre existing facts. We know. Is this your marriage?
We know it wasn't consummated, right? Why do we need to bring it up at all? And why do we need to remind the audience off it?
I think those are excellent questions because also, why have this scene at all Syrian could be standing beside dairies and not have this pre conference conversation going back to the thesis of the episode. Right?
We've got two characters who at one point knew each other well, they're both at Castle Black together, and they've now come back together with all this back Storey.
And this is not the first time that this happens in the episodes in the scenes that we're looking at in this episode.
But they actually refer to that all their huge long storeys apart and then decide not to tell it right.
At some point, they want to hear how a night's watch recruit became king in the North songs You tell me how a lannister became hand to a narrow target area long and black.
So that goes to the fuck exposition thing is like, Let's not even talk about that.
What is fascinating that the writers have chosen to do is to me Terrians, decision toe open, really with talking about sons.
And not only is that a decision which, as you say, is almost like a reminder of the preexisting fact, is reminding us that, yes, Tyrion and sons have got married and that they knew each other and that he actually looked after her and cared for her.
But I think it serves a very political process is well liked. Irian is the only one between Jon and Danny who knows them.
Who knows them both wants to vouch for both. Them wants them both to work together, but also knows how stubborn both of them are.
It's a play. It's a play from Terry in to win.
I was good to your sister, right? Well, he knows that John's being Winterfell with Sansa, so who knows what Sansa said. So he's kind of pre emptively defending his honour, learning that she said nothing bad about him, which is then, in Season eight, paid off with the.
Maybe we should have stayed married. You were the best of them.
A terrifying thought.
Which is it Irian? Self deprecating humour. It's kind of paid off from this, like it's a question and answer, which is like, What has she said about me?
I think Terrians actually genuinely curious in that moment. As much strategy must know about because it could be, it could have gone south if if Sansa said Materia Mme with Awful is probing.
But there's coming into this scene. Terrian is the one driving the scene.
He's the only one talking. Jon is backing off. He just wants to walk up to meet Danny. He's got no interest in talking to Terry in it all.
So Terrian is driving the scene. He's the one with the objective.
He's also the one who is revealing information. He's the one. He's the only one who knows the true Storey.
While he and Sands are the only ones who know the true storey off him and Sansa,
and whether he's tryingto talk about,
what Jon may or may not have heard, or what sounds that may or may not have said, he's essentially buttering Jon up before he meets Danny and trying to reestablish report.
And I think this scene was very cleverly inserted in this section and it The scene ends with the Dragons flying overhead.
It's the first time he's seen the Dragons, so he's immediately on the back foot before going into meat with Danny in terms of a power position.
And it's, um, great foreshadow with I'm not a Stark.
But I'm no Stark.
Yeah, and Tyrion is acknowledging Johns,
bravery and risk taking in coming, so he's really just working hard to re establish report So that's why even though this scene is conveying pre existing facts that the audience may or may not remember, it is very clear.
The Terrian wants something, has an objective and is trying to get Jon, too.
It's like it's not a very clearly defined goal. What he wants Jon to do. I think it's just be open, perhaps, or be trusting, yeah.
Be trusting? I think so. What's great about this scene now?
This is the great thing about doing. The podcast is I think it does two things right, the scenes purpose on a structural level, that tureen is trying to win John's trust, particularly men.
So Jon Com'on transfer that trust on to Danny Jon, you trust me. I trust Danny.
Therefore, you should trust that right? But then they've chosen the information that they've chosen.
It's different from the other scenes. It's all foreshadowing, right.
They've turned this scene. It's about that and the stuff they've chosen to talk about.
It's foreshadowing the future, which everyone wants to ship Sansa Interior. Now we'LL see whether that happens, but it's clear that he still has affection for her. I mean, that was enough to end your marriage can feel affection. Love for someone.
And I think he just felt sorry for her because he just watched her being tortured in king's landing for years.
Yes, but it's it's initial combination about the information that they've chosen to lay is foreshadowing, and that's obviously us in hindsight.
But the purpose of the scene and how they then structure the conversation serves Terrians purpose, and Jon, I don't think has an objective in that scene.
Loans objective is like How do you become to be handed Nerys.
What? What I think is really great about this scene is not just what it's doing from an exposition point of view.
But if you had us any audience member about you told them, there's going to be this great scene where Jon Interior and meet for the first time, there's that re union and you'd ask them, What do you think they're going to talk about?
I think the last thing anyone would have mentioned was Sansa. So they do the writers.
I think I've done something really, really clever off reminding us of pre existing facts on DH, subverting audience expectations, delivering on a great scene.
Anyway, I think this scene stood out to me because it felt very much that it didn't need to be there.
And so it felt like a very writerly choice, like, and I was rewatching it with this thesis and mine. So I don't want to be critical of this scene. I think this scene kind of does exposition right in that it never feels like exposition.
It feels like catch up a bit non exposition like we know all of these facts.
It's what Terrians choosing to recap, which is why I feel like set up what is filling into recap. How he became can his hand.
Then I feel the need to recap how Jon Snow became King of the North, but they felt the need to recap that Terrian was good, too.
Became king in the North.
Sansa. And, as you say, that's a strategy, but it's also perhaps a little bit of a set up.
The other bit of set up, of course, is the questions to do with that. I'm not a Stark after ticked Erian's It'LL smile. Ours was thing about.
Yeah.
Stark men don't fare well when they travel south.
And the dragon responding to Jon. I mean, at this point, I've read the theories and had presumed the Jon was the target.
Arian Well, so that I'm clever one. There's the idea that you know a million monkeys typing conspiracy theories on the Internet.
If ever.
One of them's going to be right, you know, it's just the law of numbers on.
Okay.
The other thing is like there's too many questions deliberately hungover Jon Snow's parentage like I mean, they even talked about that in early interviews with DND about like, you know, George R.
R. Martin asked you who? You heard John's real parents, where it's like Well, obviously, the question of who his real parents are is a question that we're meant to be asking something for casual viewers.
It would have just felt like very subtle foreshadowing. But what I was what you see.
But it just made me feel smug, which is how I mostly feel.
E Welcome to my world, dear listeners, E.
It's like, Yes, what? You also feel smug.
It's like smug and crippling disappointment. Somehow I don't know how they related, but somehow they're related.
So you finish up this little Dragonstone scene. We talked a lot about that one, and I don't know I have.
I have as much to say, but there's Jon jealous, coming the other way.
This's house in Germany. They've walked up the stairs to meet Danny, and they're working down the stairs to be Danny's representative from misfits. Whatever name is misunderstanding.
What do you think of it?
I believe you know of whom I speak. I think she has a good heart. A good heart of not just staring at a good heart.
There's no times without I saw the Night King doubles. I looked into his eyes.
How many men do we have in the north defying? Ten thousand less fewer.
Speaking of good hearts, Miss Sunday of nothing.
King Snow, isn't it? No, that doesn't sound right, King Jon. It doesn't matter. Forgive me, but may I ask a question?
Of course. Your name is Jon Snow. But your father's name was Ned Stark. I'm busted.
My mother and father weren't married. Is the custom different in North?
We don't have marriage in math, so the concept of a bastard doesn't exist. That sounds liberating.
Why did you leave your homeland? I was stolen away by slavers. I'm sorry.
If I may. How did a slave girl come to advise dinero Stark? Gary in bought me for my master. Set me free. That was good of her.
Of course you're serving her now.
I serve my queen because I want to say because I believe in her.
And if you wanted to sail home to north tomorrow. Then she would give me a ship.
All of us who came with her from s sauce. We believe in her. She's not our queen because she's the daughter of some king Weiner,
the queen we chose.
Will you forgive me if I sweat stains?
And the question of the scene is asked right at the beginning of the same. Which is devil's asking, How do you feel about her? And this is weird. But if, like it feels like and which is like, who you're talking about Oh, you know exactly who I'm talking about. It's such a weed.
It kind of works, but only works because, like John's a little bit taken with her.
Can I just say that this scene I chose it because in stark contrast to the previous one, it felt like exposition.
And I think it feels like exposition because no one in this scene has an objective other than the writers.
The point is, they've had the meeting. It's like, How did the meeting go?
And that's what they're trying to dramatise and dabble sums it up, which is like, Do you mind if I change size now?
Yes.
That's how this scene concludes. But you're right, you pointed out, you've got essentially even in this scene where there's three characters, but it's still a scene about who's going to win. Is it Jon or Danny? Even though Dan is not in the scene, that's what the scene's about.
And the writers want to push Jon slightly towards where he needs to get to as a character to bend the knee.
So, yes, as you say, Davison, Jon are walking down the steps, talking to each other.
You know, we've played the except already, but they bump into Miss Sanday and they essentially start with small talk. It's like she asked.
Your name is Jon Snow. But your father's name was Ned Stark. I'm busted.
Again foreshadowing the question about his parentage.
Yes, on. Then, they ask, Feels like they're at a cocktail party and they've never met before.
Is the custom different in north?
The whole point of the scene is for Miss Andy to communicate to them that Danny is white saviour, awesome breaker of the wheel, blah, blah, blah and certainly by the end of the scene, moves Davos. Is opinion off Danny?
Will you forgive me? Very sweat stains.
Which tips the scales for Jon. It's important.
Yes, all of this is important, but I just want to contrast these two scenes.
But what makes this one feel more exposition?
I think, to be fair to the writers. One of the key differences is Jon Interior are much bigger, bigger characters who have a preexisting history.
So Miss Sandy is not as bigger character and has never met Jon before.
The other point is coming into the scene. Tyrion has got a new objective with the question.
Davos, Let's say double says, How do you feel about a queen? It never feels like in the end of the scene, Devils makes a choice. He's not trying to push Jon to make a decision within the scene.
I think it's because Davos is purpose changes. What he's saying about Danny in the beginning of the scene is what yourself, Jon.
A good heart. I've noticed you staring at a good heart.
And then in the second half, I think that to me is in hindsight, What doesn't work is the Davos is shift. It's something. He's cynical. He's just worldly, his world weary. That's what makes him great. That's where he's the Onion Knight. Don't be fooled by her beauty.
Suddenly is he is fuelled by the beauty.
I think that's an excellent observation, but there's also the to me.
There's there's no gold going into the scene, so you've got the same problem with Aria.
And Hot Pie was just like people seeming talking together on that at the end of the scene. It doesn't prompt anyone. The scene very deliberately ends with the plot intruding with the arrival of the Greyjoy ship.
Is that a greyjoy ship?
Jon or Davos or me Sunday are not forced to make a decision within the scene. I think that's why it feels so different.
There was just no subtlety to the scene. There was no action in the scene. There was no objective to the characters.
And I think you put these two scenes side by side and hopefully listeners, just from hearing those two scenes next to each other at taking lessons away from.
So the last group of scenes are also re union scenes, and they're the three Winterfell reunion since San's an area meeting in the crypt in episode for,
brand area and sounds in the Garden in also in episode, for I think the scenes are almost sequential and then Jon and are.
Are sequential.
Arya, Jon and Arya.
Meeting in the Garden in Episode one of Season eight, and we're talking about characters who've had such huge journeys that the audience is aware of and seeing these characters meet for the first time.
And then it's What are they going? Teo Talk about?
What bits of information are they going to share with each other? How are they going to interact? I mean, the pole of Season seven, This aria San's a Journey is one of power.
You know where Sansa seems to be, wanting to impose her will on her forever frustrating younger sister. But she slowly gets exposed to Aria's newfound power and knowledge and who she is.
But this scene is obviously the beginning of all of that, even though there's some foreshadowing of it. But I just wanted to make the broad observation that again.
They both referred to the journeys that they've been on, and they just say, It's a long storey on. They don't talk about it.
So what does actually happen in that scene? So I've got some questions going into the scene is what does area want?
Why have they placed the scene in the crypt in front of Ned?
That's the last time they were together was when Ned was guild.
Yeah, and that does become like the big conflict between them in this season is aria blaming sons of for the death of their father.
I have to go. Your lady Stark.
Shouldn't have run from the guards. I didn't run. You need better guards.
It's you, Lady Stark. Jon left you in charge. He did.
I hope he comes back soon. I remember how happy he wants to see me. When he sees new, his heart will probably stop.
It doesn't look like him. Should've been carved by someone who knew his face. Everyone who knew his face is dead.
They say you killed Joffrey. Did you?
I was angry when I heard someone else had done it.
However long my list got, he was always first. You're lest of people I'm going to kill.
How did you get back to Winterfell? Jon Storey? I imagine yours is too.
It was very pleasant. One mine either.
But our storeys aren't over yet.
Brands home too.
So they've set the scene, the writers deliberately in the crypt in front of their father.
On they, the two sisters start out standoffish, but then do come together and hug and embrace what I love about this scene.
Is it just all it does is reveal character to each other, These air two people actually getting to know each other for the first time on the thing that they reconnect over is the murder of Geoffrey Howe. They both feel sad over how neither of them got to murder Jon.
E think for higher. It's actually important.
And for Sansa as well. Like Season seven is where sons that comes into her own as a character in terms of being given agency and calculation and power.
Given our previous episode on Season six was about how they avoided agency.
Yes. So from watching the scene, do you think there's any pre existing character beat? The audience wasn't aware of.
It's all character monologue. It's courage or exposition about how they view themselves, because I actually think it's about revealing how they feel that who they are.
That is a character monologues on how I feel about tommen coming back to that observations. I don't feel about myself.
How do I feel about the journey that I've been on?
That's exposition, right? There's no other way for the audience, particularly to get access to that, other than them telling someone else.
Steven Cleary talks about the midpoint in a sequence.
I think he talks about it in the context of the scene, the question that hangs in the air that changes the sequence. But in this case, it's the scene.
There is a moment extended quiet of discomfort between the two of them.
It's building tension, the sisterly thing.
Do I call you Lady Sansa? Its status right?
Sansa deflecting the status, saying, Well, Jon was happy to see me, but he's going to love you like it's a bit of like not diffusion, but the question that brings them together and concede in the blocking,
is when they change topic to Ned Stark. That's their conversation.
The midpoint in the scene is about Ned Stark.
Everyone who knew his face is dead.
And them bringing themselves together over their shared hatred of Joffrey and that they wish they quit killed him.
It's a weird thing, but it is how it works, and it ends. The question of the scene ends when they hug.
And then it raises the question for the next scene, which is.
Brands home Tio.
The fuck happened to brand right? Which is an iron question we know, and we know Maur than her.
So the question then creates an information gap, which is what is I going to do with that information?
But that is my observation with that scene, and it's all using pre existing facts. But it's our knowledge of those characters and hoping that they can bring themselves together. It's a beautiful piece of seen writing.
That scene has more in common with out showdowns episode than it does without exposition episode. There's no exposition.
Yeah, well, I think there's a lot of force shadowing, and in a way this is all set up like these or these two characters, and it's the set up of how their relation was going to go.
But it doesn't feel like set up because I think of how cleverly they've written this scene.
There's movements in the scene, you know, As I said, it starts super standoffish Arya, you know, asking whether she has to call a Lady Stark in her saying yes, but then they both realised that's a joke.
They come together and you know, Sansa reprimanding her.
She shouldn't have run away from the guards and Arya starting to reveal her strength by saying, you know, I didn't run, you know, they turn back to the father, which is going to be sowing the seed of conflict later on in this season.
But it doesn't feel like it because this is the father was the last time they saw each other.
And then, as you said, that gets resolved, that sort of moment of conflict or where they're apart again, which they do in the blocking, they turn away from each other.
They separate looking at the father and they come back together over their shared survival and hatred of Joffrey.
So you can see how well, like hopefully just in hearing that analysis, the waves that this scene goes through and the structure that it has does so much set up.
It's a remarkable scene, and a part of me is like how how much of that remarkable nature is because this's payoff to all the set up of seven seasons.
But I don't think it is. It feels like they've done a really great job of writing about things that we don't really expect them to write about, you know, and there is power and tactics in their very micro because they're both happy to see each other.
But there is no sons are continually trying to put Aria in the little sister place and Arya continually pushing back on that.
And not does that. The question about Ned is very telling.
That's the question that she left with, which is Sansa onboard with the beheading of my father, Right?
Yeah.
It's the equivalent of jamie is question of like, we haven't talked about tommen.
It's like we haven't talked about what happened to our dad.
Now on. That pays off gloriously later on in this season. But in this seeing, there's getting onto Joffrey's list like they'd laugh it off and Arya laughs as well. But it is.
It sounds are trying to put our status position and Arya not accepting it.
Yeah, okay. I think there is a lot of status transactions going in this scene, but I actually think they're status seemingly resolved by the end of it there on the same status. And don't know if you feel saying.
Well, I don't think it's shifted. I think, you know, in terms of your view of, like, who's won in the scene, it feels that sons are still thinks she's Lady of Winterfell. She's in charge. Here's her little sister.
They both think they've won.
Yeah, and that's mainly because area has yet to really reveal who she is.
Actually, I think they're both won in the sense that they realise that neither of them is the person they thought they were.
How did you get back to Winterfell? Long Storey. I imagine yours is too.
It was very pleasant. One mine either.
But I think that's stronger for area because her distaste towards Sansa was so strong by the end of season one.
On her perception of sounds is weakness is perhaps gone when she acknowledges their journey she's been on.
Yeah, and that Sansa is the smartest person that she knows, which is what she says in Season eight to John Snow. We believe that.
And what makes that moment workers thie audiences like Sansa chas somehow to use a line from the shield being a fish swimming through visa blades, right?
She has survived and even choosing to do what she did in season one led her to this position, right?
He's managed to survive and then thrive, whereas Ned's honourable stubbornness yeah, on Rob's obliviousness led to their demise.
Ah, yeah, yes.
So the scene that follows on from that As you said it, it comes out of the scene raising the question about brand, and they go into meeting brand in the Where would.
You came home.
I saw you at the crossroads.
You saw me, stu. Point a lot. Now run has visions.
I thought you might go to King's landing. So did I.
Why would you go back there? Soc is on her list of names.
What else is on your list? Well, so that was that already?
Where did you get this? Littlefinger gave it to me.
Littlefinger, He's here. He has declared for house Stark. Why would he give you a dagger? You thought I'd want it. Why? Because it was meant to kill me. Who cut throat after your fool?
Why would a cutthroat have a valerian steel dagger? Someone very wealthy wanted me dead. He's not a generous man. He wouldn't give you anything unless he thought he was getting something back.
It doesn't matter. What do you mean? It doesn't matter? I don't want it.
Is for there in steel, it's wasted on a cripple.
Now, like I get so frustrated with the writing and the performance of Brand is the three eyed Raven like it just pisses me off.
That's a purely personal thing, but you've made their excellent observation.
That brand is essentially pulling strings has almost become the little finger he's manipulating everyone.
So I picked the scene before we had seen the Battle of Winterfell, and so obviously the dagger becomes very, very important.
Talk about pushy arenas. There's a scene before this when little finger gives it to him that sets up this scene toe, have the impact that it does when he gives it toe area.
Last night. Who wielded it? Meant to cut your throat. But your mother fought him off.
The other dagger, the one that took her life.
I would have stopped that dagger with my own heart if I could have.
I wasn't there when she needed me most.
But I am ever know to do what she would have done to protect our children.
Anything I can do for you, Brendan, you need only ask.
Do you know who this belonged to now?
Very question was what started the War of the Five Kings. In a way, that dagger made you what you are today. Forced from your home, driven out to the wilds beyond the war.
I imagine you've seen things most men wouldn't believe.
To go through all of that and make your way home again. Only to find such chaos in the world and only imagined her health is a ladder.
I'm sorry to have to start your day. I'm not old Stark.
Talking about this scene is interesting so that you've got Arya meeting brand on DH.
What I've noticed is in nearly all of the reunion scenes with Bran, and he constantly says, I'm the three eyed Raven. I'm not brand anymore blah, blah, blah.
You know, it kind of gets boring, but he does have an objective in that the scene has got to clear sections to it.
It's one is the area meeting bran, and then the second is the discussion of the dagger.
But even Brand's got to continually convince people that he does have these powers and that he is the three eyed Raven so that people can make decisions accordingly. And here he does it.
Almost two, both Sansa and area by referencing arias list of names.
He knows the preexisting factors that she's got a list of names. His revelation that he'd knows about the pre existing names. Change is the same.
Soc is on her list of names,
else is on your list. Well said they were dead already.
And it certainly you can. You can feel that beat in the scene where.
It's the midpoint of the scene. It hangs.
And not just convinced his area that he's the three eyed Raven. It actually pushes Sansa a little Maura's well.
And also makes Arias comment about the names more serious to Sansa, right? And saying, OK, the's names, they're not just names.
Fuck! They even have a close of them exchanging the Daggett right at the fucking spot. I mean, this is foreshadow into the mat.
But we didn't know that at the time, so I mean, that just makes this scene even Mohr impressive because of the amount of set up that it's doing without feeling like set up in the slightest now.
But both of the scenes with the dagger did feel like particularly the little finger brand scene with the dagger did feel like set up because going into it little finger always has an objective.
He's one of those amazing characters that you don't really need to make him feel like His words are action because all his words generally are action.
But they certainly didn't feel it in this scene between Brand and Little Finger.
What is he trying to talk to Brown about? Why is he trying to talkto brand? Why is he giving him the dagger?
In a way, it's kind of like you get by on this scene because,
Little Finger seems like he's doing actions when really we now know that it was masking set up for for Season eight, which is quite miraculously writing.
They hung their hat on it. But Sansa in the scene we're just talking about with Sansa going little finger always wants something.
Yes, but just the button on the little finger scene is brand saying chaos is a ladder.
He quotes little finger back to him.
When Little Finger had not said it in front of him. He is again demonstrating his power and that he knows Mohr,
and that's a foreshadowing of the later scene when little fingers on trial and Bran says something that only little finger could have known about little fingers interaction with Ned before his execution.
None of you were there to see what happens. None of you knows the truth. You held a knife to his.
You said I don't want You know.
You told our mother this nice belongs Tyrion.
On all brands. Little comments about, you know? Well, dragon, for killing Night King. I don't know. Maybe, but the final of Group three Years area and Jon Snow.
So it's the scene where Jon Snow has come back to Winterfell and he's meeting Aria for the first time. There's been a whole lot of scenes with Jon Snow out Winterfell. He's already re met Brand, and there's been a council meeting that are has been conspicuously absent.
And you know, they've reminded us, even in the area and Sansa reunion scene, that Aria and Jon Snow, we're really close.
Used to be taller.
How did you sneak up on me? How did you survive a knife through that? I didn't.
You still have it?
Needle.
Have you ever used it?
Flare in steel.
Jealous? Do you have with me?
Where were you before? I could have used your help with sunset.
She doesn't like your queen. Sansa thinks she's smarter than everyone.
She's the smartest person I've ever met. You're defending her. You. I'm defending our family.
I'm a family too.
Together.
Used to be taller, you know, which is funny because I'm roughly the height off Jon Snow. And in fact, there's someone that I've been nicknamed by someone. It's snowing because my prettiness and incompetence on my Jon Snow.
Do we need to put a picture of your flowing locks? Chas the thumbnail for this action?
Yes, well, just do me doing our best. Except I'm reseeding. I'm Jon Snow has let himself go. That's my line.
It's because I have really dark facial hair, I don't know. And incompetence in spades. Okay, Okay, okay.
Used to be taller.
It's a red line it Zaria saying its character exposition. I've grown. I'm not the girl he used to remember.
I mean this again. This scene, It's a reunion scene.
They both had so many journeys, and the audience could be considering or asking, What information are they going to reveal to each other?
And once again, the writers have decided to make it about character on. I'm sure there's a lot of foreshadowing happening, you know, as we've been discovering while looking at all these other scenes. But the scenes themselves were compelling.
It didn't feel like set up when I was watching them for the first time.
No, In fact, it's characters choosing not to reveal. Have you used it once or twice?
You know, like that's a play for the It's her being withholding from Jon, and it makes a laugh for the audience because it's like a little dizzy. No.
Yes, but it's also in the same way that aria and Sansa scene.
It's both of them acknowledging that they are different and have been on a journey of pain. How did you survive?
The knife through that I didn't.
Yeah, I had a question of like, when did Ariel learn that?
I think it's become I mean, the feeling is that has become legend.
Yeah, and that's part of his power, right?
But they're so the scene starts with them hugging again. They don't go into their back storey. They just kind of allude to it and they compare swords and they reconnect in that way.
And then the midpoint of the scene is actually where Jon wants something from Arya.
He puts his hand on her shoulder and says, I wish you had been there to help me with your sister with Sansa. And so.
Do you think she's smarter than everyone? Which is like, confirm with me? She's she's not as smart. That's what he's looking for. Affirmation, right?
Which is She thinks she's smiling Iran. But I see through her yeah, areas like she's actually this's foreshadowing.
He's looking for allies.
This is the beginning of the tension between Danny and Sansa, but seen through their allies. John's gonna have to make a choice, right, Izzy on Sansa side or Dennison.
And it's so great, because then the scene becomes compelling because you've got to characters wanting something.
Basically, they're talking that they're talking about the decision. Who are you going to back sounds or Danny?
And the question is, he's like senses. You know my family, too. And the answer is, Danny's your family, too.
In fact, Danny's a closer, Really. I was thinking, Miss, when I watch their cells like Thie Ira is that Danny's a closer relative to him, then Arya or Sansa.
And as we saw Fionn, the Lima thumb was that his family.
His home was Winterfell is your home and your family is who you spend your time with. Not your bloodline, but right.
The scene of action is interested in talking about is after Little Finger has given brand.
The the dagger right mirror comes in and talks to brand right, And it's an end in the interruption, which is a great little scene transition.
I'm sorry to have disturbed you. I'm not old Stark.
No finger ends up leaving, and Brand basically gives a character mall.
And he's been saying stuff about I'm not. I'm not brand anymore.
In the three hour, even be actually in this scene confesses to her what that feels like for him.
I remember being Brandon Stark.
Mr Welcome built it for me so I could move around more easily. It's a very good idea.
I don't want to leave you,
when they come. I need to be with my family. You're safe. Safe as anyone can be. Now you don't need me anymore.
No, I don't.
That's what you've got to say.
My brother died for you, Hodor and summer died for you. I almost died for you.
Private? I'm not really.
I remember what it felt like to be Brandon Stark, but I remember so much else now.
You died in that cave.
This is character along. This is him opening up right and I think in the context is if this really is episode, that's about game of foreshadowing. But we'LL see whether it pays off.
She's got a role to play. He's chasing her out because she says, I have to be with my family now because the show has not chosen to highlight her death, We have to assume that she's still a player, right?
That's very game of thrones. I mean, she might pop up for half an episode and kill someone.
She might have. Ah, Hot Pie scene.
And she says, Dream, you died in that cave.
So can you tell me why you've brought up this? Seem why you wantto discuss it?
Character monologue, right? That's I mean, that's all I wanted to say. Was Teo kind of this book and zoo?
That's a character one. Along the moment, it's an exposition about how brand feels about himself, which is that he no longer feels like ran.
We have no other way them tio easily, if at all, dramatised that,
right, the only way he can kind of confess to I'm not brand anymore, not really remember what it's like to be brand,
because through dialogue that is something that would be easier in a book that will be in a film And so they've chosen toe, have that scene, and they've made it not feel like exposition because he's chasing her away.
Both characters have an objective. She's done all the things that she said. She's lost her brother. She's rescue this person. She was friends, you know, and potentially in love with Brandon Stark on DH is wanting to reach out and connect with Brand.
So Sue, what do your learnings from picking out these different scenes and looking at them through the exposition? Lent.
Confirmation bias, which is, I think in most of them there is a winner and all coming back to my Barry, there was a winner. There are people that think they're winners, all those people that think they're losers.
And I think, actually, probably it's more important for the character work I originally said It's about. There's a winner. There's a loser, Both winners, they're both losers or they think they're and actually think it's actually more interesting when they think they are the winner for the loser, right?
Yes.
The rider is decides who's correct? Well, then the character. So that's that's a change.
The other thing that I've realised is that compelling. The character act doesn't have to come from a character in the scene can actually be the right his hand in that scene, but they still compel a character act.
It's just that there's the Godley hand of interference.
What I really like about your first observation is if you think of going into any given scene,
that there has to be a winner, whether it's everyone is a winner or one person is a winner or everyone thinks they're a winner, whatever it is, then you are, that is, by asking that question, Who's who's going to win this scene?
You must inherently give your characters on objective and conflict.
For them to be in the same there in the scene because they want to be a winner. That's why that's why they've shown up.
Yes, on. I'm really glad that we've recorded this podcast where we're at its season eight. Because, like I said when I selected the homework, it was actually before Season eight had even started.
And now I realised just how much set up is.
You selected the particular episodes. It was my fucking idea. I just want to take credit for that was my idea to go. Teo game of thrones seasons have been broadcast. Now is the time because well, I'm genius.
Correct. But now I realised, like the scenes I picked up there was so much of them where I'm like,
Oh, this feels exposition E or even if it doesn't like these are great scenes and how much heavy lifting in terms of set up there doing that we weren't aware of in terms of their foreshadowing,
So they're quite remarkable scenes.
Mikey Lesson is, if I've got and exposition scene, get it out the way early like don't end the scene in the exposition is you're going to have a winner and loser you.
Make it term. Take this scene. Turn.
Yeah, and all of these scenes turn.
They nearly always turned towards character, and they nearly always and on characters in action.
And we've seen the poorer ones of these scenes are the ones that don't really turn that don't have characters coming in with an objective and that don't have a choice within them.
All right, I'm going to end with last minute mind bomb. That may end up taking us very last minutes to discuss.
I make a comment about turn, and you're like, Oh, yeah, they turned this way turns a line from David Chase.
He was like every scene needs to turn right, which I like won those great phrases you like not precisely sure what that means, and maybe it's in the imprecision that makes it powerful. Write a song as the scene turns.
It's a good scene. It could turn in a number of different ways. So in this case, I would say the characters do the opposite of what they're expected but expected by the audience, not necessarily expected by who they are, but maybe not.
Maybe what makes it tone is they do exactly what is compelling for the character, but not what we expect them to do.
But I want to come back to their Ned today. It's David's David Man. It's observation about EJ acquainted or thwarted.
I wonder if you quickly run through all those scenes, whether you could say the characters were educated or thwarted in their goals or both.
I think soc is educated Bye. Jamey's involvement in that first scene, right?
And jamie is thwarted.
He's thwarted, right? Arya was educated, educated, that Jon Snow is king in the north, right?
And that means the scene turned and she changed direction.
So then so then you've got the East watch scene.
The East's watch the North Ward, but they're educated about their relationships with each other, right?
Well, I would say from a certain perspective, gender is thwarted. The person who wanted the brotherhood to stay in the dungeon is defeated because that was the question off the scene.
So he's thwarted.
Do we let them out or do we not?
Yeah, torment is educated. The Jorah, his father was the commander of the night's watch, and there is a little bit about the water, the light on purpose. That's a little bit of education for Jon Snow and the audience.
You know, it's an interesting analysis too quickly, and I'm trying to skim through it as quickly as possible.
If you're using that as an analysis to see whether there turns or not, I think true, the one where I feel like there's less education and thwarting would be their area and sands a reunion. But there was very much movement in that scene.
I think they're educated about each other. They're not the person. They weren't the person.
Yeah, definitely.
The thing is, it's not just that they're no longer the person they thought they were.
They never were. Arya assumed.
That's answer would side with Joffrey, which is not true.
Sansa assume that our area was playing Make believe or whatever your terminology and we use.
Even Jon Snow is educated when he's talking to Tyrion and then Milan Dre.
He's educated about Syrians relationship with Sansa when he's educated about the dragons.
He's educated about Danny's ability to invoke a leadership right.
It's all education, which is why educations and interesting thinking learns and he loans about the other character.
Yeah, but then my concern about this is you.
Then sort of delving back into exposition because where if it's not motivated by character and if it doesn't have a conflict, that education is just well, I learned something. He learned something. We walk away, and it made.
Is it really education, if it doesn't teach, tell you to do something different.
Well these in these scenes, the ones where there wasn't that action immediately tangible within the scene, they felt less compelling.
Clearly, chances not being educated because he's not change his fucking mind.
I think it Zen interesting, analytical tool. I just think in terms of solving the craft problem off howto I make these scenes where there's a lot of exposition. How do I make them compelling and dramatic?
Education, to me, is not the answer.
Education, perhaps, could be expanded to learn something that is different from the pre existing facts that my character had in my head the perception or I learned that my perception is untrue.
And that scene certainly like that's its purpose, and it does shift him.
I just, let's say, for example, that in that scene, Jon Snow and Dallas were marching towards the longboat to try and steal it back in sail away.
And Dallas is advising him. Maybe it's not a good idea. We haven't got here, you know. And John's like that.
We're never going toe connect on DH.
They bump into Miss Andrea and the things that she says they're changes John's mind.
For example, I like I'm not. I'm not trying to be a better writer than the writers of game of thrones are.
They're amazing. Hopefully we've lauded them enough in this episode with some of these incredible scenes, but just giving them an action.
Old lady in them enough.
That or a decision and having it changed, educated or thwarted would have made that scene so Muchmore compelling and feel much less like It's the writer talking to the audience.
So maybe they analysis proves correct, that that's why it feels like a week scene is it's not clear whether they've been educated.
Oh, thwarted. I'm just asking the question. Hopefully, you've been educated. Well, one way or another jazz, I either educate your I thwart you either way.
I think there's only ever going to be thwarting when it comes to you and I.
Anyway, hopefully you all have enjoyed this love letter to game of thrones that's been masquerading as, Ah, screen right,
craft podcast on DH, thanks to all our patriots who do genuinely bring UME or draft zero more often,
in particular, Special thanks to Christopher Walker, patron and listener who has volunteered Teo Edit last episode and this episode to help us get it to you quicker.
Why this man is helping us and then paying, I don't know, but.
He's very being educated and thwart.
But we've also got a lot of new Patri ins as well, so thank you.
Hopefully this means we're doing something right, but you'LL hear that in our particular wall of awesome special thanks go to some new names, including Cary Harris, Devon on DH.
Thanks to existing wonderful, longstanding super supporters.
Paul Degree Crab Edmonds, Rob Draper, actually, Daniels Brennan, Keys News and Sandra.
Oh, and a new supported,
yes, thanks to you all. And thanks to you for coming up with this amazing genius idea.
I educated you are. If you feel so compelled to argue with,
Chazz and myself about anything on this episode or anything in general, you can find many ways to contact us at draft zero dot com at the website.
You also find the show notes for this and all our other episodes.
You also find Elling Tow us on Apple podcast so you can share the word that way. Rate us and reviewers, which is very important for spreading word.
If you're feeling especially supportive and maybe even a little bit generous, you can find a link to our patri in Paige and thanks for listening.
We need to be near him. Not too near the Night King won't come for close enough to pursue him. When he does, Jack and Fire will stop him. I don't know. No one's ever tried. We're all going to die,
but at least we don't together.